

Digital Economy Bill [HL]

Page 52
Schedules

Schedule 1
Section 41
Classification of video games etc: supplementary provision


1 The Video Recordings Act 1984 is amended as follows.


2 (1) Section 4 (authority to determine suitability of video works for classification)
is amended as follows.

&nbsp; (2) In subsection (1)(b)—

(a) in sub-paragraph (i), after “issue” insert “or revocation”, and

(b) in sub-paragraph (ii), after “issuing” insert “and revoking”.

&nbsp; (3) After that subsection insert—


“(1C) The arrangements made under this section may require a person
requesting a classification certificate for a video work to agree to
comply with a code of practice, which may, in particular, include
provision relating to the labelling of video recordings.”

&nbsp; (4) After subsection (3) insert—


“(3A) The Secretary of State must not make a designation under this
section unless satisfied that adequate arrangements will be made for
taking account of public opinion in the United Kingdom.”

&nbsp; (5) For subsection (5) substitute—


“(5) No fee is recoverable by, or in accordance with arrangements made
by, the designated authority in connection with a determination in
respect of a video work or the issue of a classification certificate
unless the designated authority has consulted the Secretary of State
about such fees.”

&nbsp; (6) Omit subsection (6).

&nbsp; (7) After that subsection insert—


“(6A) When making arrangements under this section, the designated
authority must have regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary
of State.

(6B) The Secretary of State may not issue guidance about the matters to be
taken into account when determining the suitability of a video work
for the issue of a classification certificate or a classification certificate
of a particular description.”

&nbsp; (8) In subsection (8)—
Page 53

(a) after “Act” insert—


“(a) ”, and

(b) at the end insert “, and



(b) references to the designated authority, in relation to a
classification certificate, are references to the person
or persons designated under this section when the
certificate is issued,

(but see also section 4ZA(2)).”

3 In section 7 (classification certificates), at the end insert—


“(3) For the purposes of this Act, a video work is not a video work in
respect of which a classification certificate has been issued if every
classification certificate issued in respect of the video work has been
revoked.”

4 After that section insert—



“7A Classification certificates for particular video recordings


(1) A classification certificate issued in respect of a video work may be
issued so as to have effect only for the purposes of a video recording
that is described in the certificate (whether by reference to its
contents, to the manner in which it is, or is to be, supplied or
otherwise).

(2) For the purposes of this Act, a video recording contains a video work
in respect of which a classification certificate has been issued if (and
only if) a classification certificate that has been issued in respect of
the video work has effect for the purposes of the video recording.”

5 In section 8 (requirements as to labelling etc), omit subsections (2) and (3).


6 (1) Section 11 (supplying video recording of classified work in breach of
classification) is amended as follows.

&nbsp; (2) In subsection (1)—

(a) for “containing” substitute “, or no video recording described in the
certificate, that contains”,

(b) for “a video recording containing that work” substitute “such a video
recording”,

(c) after “unless” insert—


“(a) the video work is an exempted work, or

(b) ”.

&nbsp; (3) In subsection (2), after paragraph (b) (but before “or”) insert—


“(ba) that the accused believed on reasonable grounds that the
video work concerned or, if the video recording contained
more than one work to which the charge relates, each of those
works was an exempted work,”.


7 (1) Section 12 (certain video recordings only to be supplied licensed sex shops)
is amended as follows.

&nbsp; (2) In subsections (1) and (3)—

(a) for “containing” substitute “, or no video recording described in the
certificate, that contains”, and
Page 54

(b) for “a video recording containing the work” substitute “such a video
recording”.

&nbsp; (3) In subsection (6)—

(a) for “containing” substitute “, or no video recording described in the
certificate, that contains”, and

(b) for “a video recording containing that work” substitute “such a video
recording”.


8 (1) Section 13 (supplying video recording not complying with requirements as
to labels etc) is amended as follows.

&nbsp; (2) In subsection (1), after “unless” insert—


“(a) the video work is an exempted work, or

(b) ”.

&nbsp; (3) In subsection (2), before paragraph (a) insert—


“(za) believed on reasonable grounds that the video work
concerned or, if the video recording contained more than one
work to which the charge relates, each of those works was an
exempted work,”.


9 (1) Section 14 (supplying video recording containing false indication as to
classification) is amended as follows.

&nbsp; (2) In subsection (1), after “unless” insert—


“(a) the video work is an exempted work, or

(b) ”.

&nbsp; (3) In subsection (2)(a), after sub-paragraph (i) (but before “or”) insert—


“(ia) that the video work concerned or, if the video
recording contained more than one work to which the
charge relates, each of those works was an exempted
work,”.

&nbsp; (4) In subsection (3)—

(a) after “unless” insert—


“(a) the video work is an exempted work, or

(b) ”.

&nbsp; (5) In subsection (4)(a), before sub-paragraph (i) insert—


“(ai) that the video work concerned or, if the video
recording contained more than one work to which the
charge relates, each of those works was an exempted
work,”.


10 (1) Section 22 (other interpretation) is amended as follows.

&nbsp; (2) In subsection (1), at the end insert—


““video games authority” and “video works authority” have the
meaning given in section 4ZA.”

&nbsp; (3) In subsection (2), after “Act” insert “(and subject to regulations under
subsection (2A))”.
Page 55

&nbsp; (4) After subsection (2) insert—


“(2A) The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the
circumstances in which, for the purposes of this Act, a video
recording does or does not contain a video work.”

11 After section 22 insert—



“22A Regulations


(1) Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

(2) Every power of the Secretary of State to make regulations under this
Act includes—

(a) power to make different provision for different purposes,
and

(b) power to make transitional or saving provision.

(3) A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 2A or 3
may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

(4) Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this
Act is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either
House of Parliament.”

12 Until such time as section 2A of the Video Recordings Act 1984 comes into
force, section 22A(3) of that Act has effect as if the words “2A or” were
omitted.

Schedule 2
Section 42
Licensing of copyright and performers’ property rights


Part 1
Regulation of licensing bodies

1 In the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 before Schedule 1 insert—


“Schedule A1
Section 116D
Regulation of licensing bodies


Code of practice


1 (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations require a licensing body
to adopt a code of practice which complies with requirements set
out in the regulations.

&nbsp; (2) The regulations may in particular make provision requiring a code
of practice to include—

(a) provision relating to any matter to which regulations
under section 116A or 116B may relate;

(b) provision for a person to be appointed to represent the
interests of persons dealing with the body in any capacity.
Page 56

&nbsp; (3) The regulations may provide that in the case of a licensing body
that fails to adopt a code of practice in accordance with the
regulations, a code of practice approved by the Secretary of State
or by a person designated under the regulations by the Secretary
of State has effect as a code of practice adopted by the body.


2 (1) The powers conferred by paragraph 1 are exercisable only so as to
make provision applying in relation to a licensing body—

(a) for the purposes of provision made under section 116A or
116B as it applies to that body, or

(b) where it appears to the Secretary of State that the body’s
system of self-regulation is failing to protect the interests of
copyright owners, licensees, prospective licensees or the
public.

&nbsp; (2) The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to—

(a) procedures to be followed before such provision applies in
relation to a licensing body;

(b) where such provision applies by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1)(b), procedures to be followed before such provision
ceases to apply in relation to a licensing body.

Enforcement


3 (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for the
consequences of a failure by a licensing body or other person to
comply with—

(a) a code of practice which has effect under this Schedule in
relation to the person,

(b) an authorisation given to the person under section 116A or
116B, or

(c) a requirement imposed under this Schedule.

&nbsp; (2) The regulations may in particular provide for the imposition of
financial penalties.

&nbsp; (3) The regulations may include provision—

(a) for determining whether there has been a failure to comply
with anything mentioned in sub-paragraph (1);

(b) for determining any penalty that may be imposed in
respect of the failure;

(c) for an appeal to the Copyright Tribunal against the
imposition of any such penalty.

&nbsp; (4) The regulations may provide for a determination within sub-
paragraph (3)(a) or (b) to be made by the Secretary of State or by a
person designated by the Secretary of State under the regulations.

&nbsp; (5) The regulations may make provision for requiring a person to give
the person by whom a determination within sub-paragraph (3)(a)falls to be made (the “adjudicator”) any information that the
adjudicator reasonably requires for the purpose of making that
determination.
Page 57

Fees


4 (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations require a licensing body
to which regulations under any other provision of this Schedule
apply to pay fees to the Secretary of State.

&nbsp; (2) The aggregate amount of fees payable under the regulations must
not be more than the cost to the Secretary of State of administering
the operation of regulations under this Schedule.”

Part 2
Performers’ property rights

2 In Schedule 2A to the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (licensing of
performers’ property rights) after paragraph 1 insert—


“Additional licensing and regulation


1A (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for authorising
a licensing body or other person to do, or to grant licences to do,
an act to which section 182A, 182B, 182C or 182CA applies
where—

(a) the performer’s consent would otherwise be required
under that section, but

(b) the right to authorise or prohibit the act is an orphan right.

&nbsp; (2) An authorisation or licence under the regulations in favour of any
person must not preclude any authorisation or licence in favour of
another person.

&nbsp; (3) The regulations may provide for the treatment of royalties or other
sums paid in respect of an authorisation or licence, including—

(a) the deduction of administrative costs;

(b) the period for which sums must be held for the owner of a
performer’s property rights;

(c) the treatment of sums after that period (as bona vacantia or
otherwise).

&nbsp; (4) The regulations may provide for determining the rights and
obligations of any person if a right ceases to be an orphan right.

&nbsp; (5) The regulations may provide for the Secretary of State to
determine whether any requirement of the regulations for a
person’s becoming or remaining authorised has been met or
ceased to be met.

&nbsp; (6) In this Part references to a right as or as ceasing to be an orphan
right are to be read in accordance with regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

&nbsp; (7) Regulations under sub-paragraph (6) may operate by reference to
guidance published from time to time by any person.


1B (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for authorising
a licensing body to grant performers’ property right licences
(within the meaning of paragraph 1) in relation to a performer’s Page 58
property rights where the rights owner is not the body or a person
on whose behalf the body acts.

&nbsp; (2) The regulations may not authorise the grant of a licence—

(a) in respect of an unpublished recording, or

(b) in respect of rights excluded by notice given by the rights
owner in accordance with the regulations.

&nbsp; (3) Sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) of paragraph 1A apply to regulations
under this paragraph (but sub-paragraphs (3)(b) and (c) and (4)apply only in relation to orphan rights).

1C Schedule A1 applies for the purposes of paragraphs 1A and 1B as
it applies for the purposes of sections 116A and 116B, as if
references to copyright were references to performers’ property
rights.


1D (1) The powers conferred by paragraphs 1A and 1B include in
particular power—

(a) to make incidental, supplementary or consequential
provision;

(b) to make different provision for different purposes;

(c) to make provision amending this Part;

(d) to extend or restrict the jurisdiction of the Copyright
Tribunal.

&nbsp; (2) The power to make regulations under paragraphs 1A and 1B is
exercisable by statutory instrument.

&nbsp; (3) A statutory instrument containing such regulations is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament, but that is subject to sub-paragraph (4).

&nbsp; (4) Where the regulations amend this Part, a statutory instrument
containing them may not be made unless a draft of the instrument
has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House
of Parliament.”

Schedule 3
Section 46
Repeals
Short title and chapterExtent of repealPublic Lending Right Act 1979 (c. 10)In section 5(2), the word “and” at the end of the definition of “the register”.Video Recordings Act 1984 (c. 39)Section 2(1)(c) (and the word “or” before it).Section 4(6).Section 8(2) and (3).In section 22(1), the word “and” at the end of the definition of “business”.Broadcasting Act 1990 (c. 42)Section 14(7).In section 106(1A), the word “or” at the end of paragraph (c). Broadcasting Act 1990 (c. 42)—cont.Section 183A(7)(a) and (b).Section 184.Communications Act 2003 (c. 21)In section 218(7), the words after paragraph (b). Section 221. Section 224(3).In section 314(1)(a), the words from “but” to “that case”. In Schedule 15, paragraph 63 and the preceding heading.
HL Bill 154/5